Activity 1:

1. This program will store integers entered by a user into an array. It then calls bubbleSort to sort the
array. Study the code in bubbleSort to refresh your memory on Bubble Sort algorithm and answer
the following questions:

    a. Why do we need to pass the size of array to the function?
        pass size of funciton to ensure "bubbleSort" know the number of elements in the array
        no size = impossible to iterate elements of array accurately

    b. Is the original array (the one being passed into the function) changed at the end of this function?
        no, sorting is dont in "s_arr"

    c. Why do you think a new array (s_array) is needed to store the result of the sorted values (why not
update the array as we sort)? Hint: look at what the main function does.
        new "s_arr: needed to store sorted values => bubble sort = swapping elemts within the array
        if update original array, awapping operations would affect comparisons in subsequent steps

2. Once you understand how Bubble Sort works,
re-write the code so that you are accessing the array’s
content using pointer notations (*s_arr), i.e., you cannot use s_arr[j] anymore. Comment out
the original code so the algorithm will not be run twice.

3. After the array is sorted, the program will ask user to enter a key to search for in the sorted array. It will
then call bSearch to perform a Binary Search on the array. Complete the bSearch function so that it
implements Binary Search recursively (no loop!). You must use pointer notations here as well. Pay
attention to what is written in main so your bSearch will return an appropriate value.

Activity 2: 
1. Start with two pointers at the head of the list

2. On each iteration, increment the first pointer by one node and the second pointer by two nodes. If it is
not possible to do one or both because of a null pointer, then we know there is an end to the list and
there is therefore no cycle.

3. We know there is a cycle if

    a. The second pointer is the same as the first pointer

    b. The next node of the second pointer is pointed to by the first pointer