TPS 1:
    1. Name the 3 pools for memory and what kind of variables will be stored in each pool.
        Static: global variaables, static variables
        Stack: local variables, function parameters
        Heap: dynamic memory allocation (malloc, free)

    2. Open mem.c with your favorite text editor and discuss the following questions with your partner:
        a. How many variables are declared?
            3 variables
        
        b. How many of them are pointers? What type of data does each pointer point to?
            2 pointers, "ptr" and "handle"
            ptr: point to integer (int *)
            handle: pointer to pointer to integer (int **)

        c. Which pool of memory are these variables stored in?
            num = Stack
            ptr and handle = stack, then point to mempry allocated on the heap
        
        d. Which pool of memory will the pointer ptr point to in line 12.
            memory allocated on heap (malloc)

    3. Using a piece of paper (or a drawing app), draw the 3 pools of memory and indicate the locations (in
    which pool?) of the variables in mem.c using boxes (like what we did in lecture). Label the boxes with
    variable names, their content, and their addresses. You will need to insert extra code to obtain the
    addresses of these variables.
        stack (num (storing value "14"), ptr, handle) 
        heap (memory allocated for "14" (num = 14), memory allocated for unknown value (*ptr = num))
        &num, &ptr, &handle = addresses in stack where variables are stored
        *ptr, *handle = addresses in heap dynamically allocated 

    4. In the same drawing, use arrows to connect each pointer to its destination.
    ptr -> *ptr
    handle -> *handle

TPS 2:
    1. Open NodeStruct.c and discuss what this program does.
    
    2. Insert extra code to print out the value of head, addresses of head, iValue, fValue, and next pointed by head.
    
    3. Based on the addresses of the members of Node structure, what do you observe about how structures 
    are stored in memory? What is the relationship between the pointer (head) and its destination (the
    Node structure)?
        head = address of dynamically allocated memory
        pointer head pointing to struct (iValue int, fValue float, next pointer)
            points to integer if iValue, float of fValue, pointer of next